---
layout: post
title: "Multi-Agent Combinatorial Path Finding (MCPF)"
date: 2024-2-1 12:00:00
categories: research
description: "Planning collision-free paths for multiple robots to visit many target locations"
author: "Zhongqiang Ren"
published: true
sidebar:  false
permalink: /research/mcpf
image: /img/posts/2024-02-01-mcpf/mcpf_rviz.png
datatable: true
hero_height: is-small
title_image: None
link-new-tab: true
tags:
  - multi-agent_path_planning
---

Multi-robot systems prevail over the past decade. In particular, these systems provide an intelligent and automated solution for material transportation and information collection in smart warehouse, unmanned factories, automated ports, and many other potential scenarios.
A fundamental problem in these applications is to tell the robots where they should go and how to arrive their target locations as quick as possible, namely, plan collision-free paths for the robots while minimizing their arrival times.

Conventionally, Multi-Agent Path Finding (MAPF) seeks an ensemble of collision-free paths for multiple agents from their respective start locations to their respective goal locations while minimizing a cost function defined over the paths. Here, we consider a generalization of MAPF where the agents must also visit a given set of intermediate target locations before reaching their goals. We refer to this generalization as Multi-Agent Combinatorial Path Finding (MCPF), which aims to find "start-target-goal" paths for the agents rather than the "start-goal" paths as in MAPF. MCPF is quite challenging as it requires both collision avoidance between agents (as present in MAPF), and target sequencing, i.e., solving Multiple Traveling Salesman Problem (MTSP) to specify the allocation and visiting orders of targets for all agents. MCPF requires handling both collision avoidance and target sequencing simultaneously, which has rarely been addressed before by MAPF or MTSP research. Both the MTSP and the MAPF are NP-hard to solve to optimality, and so is MCPF. 

To handle the challenges, we develop a family of algorithms [1,2] to find optimal, bounded sub-optimal and sub-optimal solutions to MCPF by leveraging the recent advances in both MAPF and MTSP. The main idea behind our approaches is to interleave MTSP and MAPF approaches in a princiipled way in order to provide solution quality guarantees. Our approach alternates between generating target sequences for the robots by (1) solving a MTSP where the collision avoidance constraint is relaxed, and (2) generating collision-free paths for agents while fixing the target sequences. We instantiate this idea within the framework of dynamic programming and branch and bound, which leads to CBSS [1] and MS\* [2], exact algorithms that can find optimal solutions for MCPF.



## Publications

{% bibliography --query @*[title^={CBSS}] %}

{% bibliography --query @*[title^={MS}] %}
